---
layout: speaker
date: "2013-08-08 08:30"
categories: speakers
name: Jimmie Paschall
title: Vice President, Head of Enterprise, Diversity & Inclusion, Wells Fargo
image: Paschall_Jimmie.jpg
published: true
teaser: Jimmie Paschall is executive vice president, Enterprise Diversity and Inclusion for Wells Fargo where she is responsible for developing strategies, initiating action and driving organizational change in support of the company’s diversity and inclusion priorities. 
in:
tw:
ww: 
---
Jimmie Paschall is executive vice president, Enterprise Diversity and Inclusion for Wells Fargo where she is responsible for developing strategies, initiating action and driving organizational change in support of the company’s diversity and inclusion priorities. This includes providing transformational thought leadership and guidance to help the company develop and maintain a diverse and inclusive culture, leading the company’s Enterprise Diversity and Inclusion Council and Team Member Network program, and advising executive management on direction and progress.  Paschall joined Wells Fargo in January 2012 from Marriott International where she served as the company’s global diversity officer and senior vice president of external affairs.  In this capacity, she spearheaded the company's domestic and global diversity outreach, broadening the footprint of Marriott's award-winning diversity initiatives among the company's workforce, owners and franchisees, suppliers and customers. Paschall also played a primary role in the company's Board of Directors' "Committee for Excellence," which was established in 2003 to set significant diversity objectives and monitor progress and oversaw the Marriott Foundation for People with Disabilities and its national "Bridges.....from school to work" program, which trains and links young people with disabilities to productive employment with companies across the country. Paschall also served as executive vice president of external affairs at Volunteers of America, Inc. where she led seven key areas of the company including public policy, marketing communications, fundraising and development. In this role, Paschall developed and implemented a strategic plan to dramatically expand the visibility, stature and impact of the 111-year old organization. Prior to that, Paschall was instrumental in launching a new telecommunications start-up company, XO Communications, leading the company’s human resources function and corporate outreach programs for employees and the community. She also held executive positions in human resources and corporate relations with Sodexo and Host Marriott Services Corporation (now HMSHost Corp.).  A graduate of Howard University, Paschall serves on the Consortium of Chief Diversity Officers at Georgetown University, is a member of the Marriott Foundation for People with Disabilities Board, the Executive Leadership Council and the Conference Board's Council of Global Diversity and Inclusion Executives and is a graduate of Leadership Washington. She’s a recipient of the National Urban League’s Donald H. McGannon Award for her commitment to ideals and beliefs in equal opportunity, and was selected as one of Black Enterprise’s Top Executives in Diversity and Uptown Professionals’ Top 100 Executives in America.  