---
layout: speaker
date: "2013-08-15 08:30"
categories: speakers
name: Kimberly Russo
title: Chief Operating Officer of The George Washington University Hospital
image: Russo_Kim.JPG
published: true
teaser: Kimberly was most recently recognized as an “Up and Comer Under 40” by Modern Healthcare and Becker’s Hospital Review.  
in:
tw:
ww: 
---
Kimberly Russo is Chief Operating Officer of The George Washington University Hospital, a multidisciplinary, tertiary care facility serving a diverse group of patients – from area residents to visiting dignitaries and heads of state.  Kim has over 15 years of both clinical and operational experience and is responsible for strategic initiatives, business growth and development, employee/patient satisfaction, and construction projects as well as overseeing the daily operations of the facility.  Self-motivated and with the ability to wed her intrinsic desire to provide the highest quality care to the community with her leadership skills to motivate employees and peers to strive for excellence has impacted the facility’s overall growth and satisfaction in the market.  She serves on the GWU School of Nursing Advisory Council and is Co-Chair of the EMP Coalition Grant Steering Committee for the Metropolitan Area.  In addition to her efforts at work, Kim also demonstrates these skills in the greater community and has served on the Washington Junior League’s Literacy Advisory Board and is deeply involved in the Food and Friends Organization.

Ms. Russo earned a Master of Science degree in Speech-Language Pathology from Rush University and a Master in Business Administration from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.  She was most recently recognized as an “Up and Comer Under 40” by Modern Healthcare and Becker’s Hospital Review.  She was also named by the Washington Business Journal as an honoree of “Women Who Mean Business” in 2010.


