---
layout: speaker
date: "2013-08-04 08:30"
categories: speakers
name: Dr. Mitzi Montoya
title: Vice Provost & Dean of the College of Technology and Innovation, Arizona State University 
image: Montoya_Mitzi.jpg
published: true
teaser: Mitzi M. Montoya is Vice Provost of the Arizona State University Polytechnic campus and Dean of the College of Technology & Innovation. She received her Ph.D. in Marketing and Statistics and a B.S. in Applied Engineering Science, both from Michigan State University.   
in:
tw:
ww: 
---
Mitzi M. Montoya is Vice Provost of the Arizona State University Polytechnic campus and Dean of the College of Technology & Innovation. She received her Ph.D. in Marketing and Statistics and a B.S. in Applied Engineering Science, both from Michigan State University. Dr. Montoya has taught graduate and undergraduate courses in technological entrepreneurship, product innovation, management of technology, and marketing. She has delivered courses on these topics in the U.S., England, Brazil, Italy, Egypt, Kuwait, Russia, Japan, Switzerland, Panama and Argentina. Her publications have appeared in many publications including: Management Science, the Journal of Marketing Research, Marketing Science, the Academy of Management Journal, the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, Decision Sciences, MIS Quarterly, and the Journal of Product Innovation Management.Dr. Montoya has advised many organizations on topics related to innovation and marketing strategy. Her experience includes work with organizations such as Xerox, The Dow Chemical Company, IBM, Nortel, BP, MeadWestvaco, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Raytheon, Martin Marietta Materials, and Center for Creative Leadership, John Deere, DaimlerChrysler, etc.Dr. Montoya is responsible for advancing the mission of the College of Technology & Innovation and providing leadership and strategic direction for the growth of the ASU Polytechnic campus. She is leading the development of a new model for higher education that makes hands-on, real-world projects with industry and community partnerships the focus of a student’s education.This new model for higher education has resulted in CTI being named one of only 29 programs in the nation to be recognized by the National Academies of Engineering for incorporating real-world experience into engineering education.The structure and degree programs offered at CTI focus on the intersection of engineered, human and environmental systems. They’re laser-focused on action and practical application to impact people’s lives for the better and help preserve our natural environment.