---
layout: speaker
date: "2013-08-05 08:30"
categories: speakers
name: Pilar Montoya
title: CEO, Society for Hispanic Professional Engineers
image: Montoya_Pilar.jpg
published: true
teaser: Pilar Montoya is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), the premier national organization aimed at increasing the number of Hispanics contributing to the nation’s innovation and technology future. Under her leadership, SHPE has launched innovative national programs that ensure that more Hispanics will lead in technological solutions of the future.  
in:
tw:
ww: 
---
Pilar Montoya is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), the premier national organization aimed at increasing the number of Hispanics contributing to the nation’s innovation and technology future. Under her leadership, SHPE has launched innovative national programs that ensure that more Hispanics will lead in technological solutions of the future.Ms. Montoya brings a strong track record of developing partnerships with corporate and governmental agencies and educational institutions to move the STEM issue forward and lead the way in recapturing the United States leadership position in STEM. Among programs she has helped create include the Corporate Readiness Program with Johnson & Johnson Corporation, the Tu Futuro national initiative with Naval Sea Systems Command,  has lead a large army of STEM ambassadors to create SHPE student chapters in high schools and universities across America and secured partners to implement an Empowering Latinas in STEM initiave.As the SHPE CEO, Montoya guides the organization’s operations, programming, education, member benefits, fund raising, marketing, and government relations efforts nationally. Through leading the membership and foundation organizations, she manages a $6 million budget.Since joining SHPE in September 2009, she has helped secure over $11 million dollars in funding for the SHPE, Inc and SHPE Foundation, has guided the organization in the development of education and STEM programs nationally and has undertaken the development of a five-year strategic plan, and an Information Technology Business Solutions upgrade.Ms. Montoya brings over 25 years of business and financial management for private companies and non-profits. Ms. Montoya was the Founder and President of a nationally acclaimed Hispanic Marketing agency with corporate, governmental and non-profit clients.  She was in the forefront of Hispanic marketing efforts managing accounts for companies such as Del Monte Foods, US Postal Service and California Five-A-Day.Outside of her professional achievements, Montoya has been recognized as both a community and business leader. She has been honored as the Top 100 Women in STEM by US News and World Reports and has been featured as a Woman in Leadership publication two years in a row.  For her civic contributions, she was recognized with a California Assembly resolution for efforts with Latino youth, an American Cancer Society volunteer award, and the Child Abuse Prevention Council Volunteer of the Year Recognition.  Additionally she has received five advertising awards from Hispanic Business Magazine’s “Se Habla Espanol”, and been honored as a Business Person of the Year Award from the Sacramento Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce. Her efforts have also garnered volunteer recognition awards from the Urban League, Chicano Latino Youth Leadership Conference, to name a few.Ms. Montoya is the mother of two children; a daughter currently studying at CSU Long Beach and her son studying at California Art College in Pasadena.