---
layout: speaker
date: "2013-07-23 08:30"
categories: honorees
name: Debbie Allen
honor: Legend
title: "Actress & Member of the President's Committee on the Arts & Humanities"
image: Allen_Debbie.jpg
published: true
teaser: "Debbie Allen is one of television’s true renaissance figures: dancer, actor, singer, choreographer, director, producer, and writer. A dancer by training, Allen worked in professional theater, which paved the way to acting roles."
in: null
tw: null
ww: null
---
Debbie Allen is one of television’s true renaissance figures: dancer, actor, singer, choreographer, director, producer, and writer. A dancer by training, Allen worked in professional theater, which paved the way to acting roles. The first time television came calling was for a short-lived series, 3 Girls 3, which tapped her skills in a variety/situation comedy format. But it was her next series, when she repeated the role she had played in the 1980 film Fame for its television spin-off, that she showed new scope to her talents, including serving as coexecutive producer and choreographer. It was during Fame’s third season that she took on her first directing job, making her one of the rare African-American women to do so. In 1988 she took over as producer of The Cosby Show spin-off A Different World. Allen put her stamp on the series by directing every episode of her inaugural season and a majority of episodes during the six-year run. As producer, she ensured that social themes, including apartheid, AIDS, and sexual harassment, were explored, giving the series greater weight and higher ambitions than it previously had. While she has worked on projects involving mostly black performers, Allen looks beyond race. “Certainly my blackness has shaped my experience, my passion, my pain. But I’m an artist, and I would like to be looked at as an artist.”
 
Growing up in Texas, Allen began learning to dance when she was only three years old. At the age of eight her efforts to be accepted by the Houston Foundation for Ballet proved unsuccessful, a disappointment she would later blame on the segregation existing in the fifties. After a period of private dance study, Allen trained in Mexico where her mother had moved her and her siblings, one of whom, Phylicia Ayers-Allen, later became known as Phylicia Rashad, costar of the smash-hit series The Cosby Show. Following graduation from Howard University in Washington, DC, Allen did further dance studies at the National Ballet School and taught at the Duke Ellington School of the Performing Arts. In 1971 she entered professional show business when she got a job dancing in the chorus of the Broadway musical Purlie. Following this, she became a member of George Faison’s dance troupe. She got her first chance to show that she could act as well as dance when she was promoted from the chorus and cast as one of the principals in another Broadway show, Raisin. After some commercial spots and guest appearances on the CBS sitcom Good Times, she was chosen to be part of the trio of fresh new talents who would be spotlighted on the miniseries 3 Girls 3, which was greeted with praise but was cancelled by the network. Undaunted, Allen continued to find work, which included participating in one of the major television events of 1979,Roots: The Next Generations, in which she played the wife of author Alex Haley (played by James Earl Jones).
 
For Allen, 1980 was a breakthrough year. First she received rave notices (and a Tony nomination) for her performance as Anita in the revival of the Broadway classic West Side Story, and then she played the small role of Lydia Grant, an instructor at New York’s High School for the Performing Arts, in the dramatic musical filmFame. The former helped her earn the role of the tragic washerwoman Sarah in one of the important films of 1981,Ragtime, while the latter allowed her to take a step forward into prominence when she was asked to repeat her part in NBC’s planned weekly version of Fame. Allen agreed to do the series, but only if she could also serve as the choreographer. Debuting in January of 1982, Fame earned critical favor but struggled in the ratings. Allen received Emmy nominations as both an actress and choreographer, and won the Emmy in 1982 and 1983 for her choreography. The show was cancelled in 1983 by NBC and then picked up for syndication, where it had greater success, lasting another three seasons. During that period, Allen earned a third credit, as coexecutive producer, and was then asked if she could direct as well, doing some episodes starting in the 1985–86 season. Even though she was still involved in the series, Allen jumped at the chance to play the title role in the 1986 Broadway revival ofSweet Charity, where she once again received terrific reviews and a Tony nomination.
 
The same year that Charity opened, Allen was back working in television, directing episodes of Family Ties andThe Bronx Zoo. Next she was asked to take charge of The Cosby Show spin-off, A Different World, which had done well in the ratings during its first season on the air but had received a very negative critical response. Trusting Allen because of the creativity she had shown behind the camera and because she had gone to an all-black college much like the one depicted in the series’s fictional Hillman College, she signed on for its second season, not only as the producer, but also as director. Allen stayed firmly involved in the program for the remainder of its six-season run, occasionally playing the role of Dr. Langhorne and directing a majority of the episodes. During its run, Allen not only starred in her own variety special for ABC but also cowrote, produced, directed, and choreographed it, earning Emmy nominations in the latter two categories.
 
Allen received her first directorial credit outside of series programming with the television movie Polly, a musical adaptation of Pollyanna, which proved such a ratings success that a sequel appeared the following year, Polly: Comin’ Home!, with Allen once again in the director’s chair as well as staging the dances. In addition, she choreographed the numbers on several of the Academy Awards telecasts, earning four Emmy nominations for her work; won her third Emmy for Outstanding Achievement in Choreography, for creating the number “African American Odyssey” for the special Motown 30: What’s Goin’ On (1990); continued to direct episodic television with such credits as The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, The Jamie Foxx Show, and That’s So Raven; played one of the leads for one season of the situation comedy In the House; and directed herself opposite her sister, Phylicia Rashad, in The Old Settler, the premiere broadcast of the anthology series PBS Hollywood Presents. In 2003 she joined the UPN series All of Us as a frequent director and then found herself once again involved in a television series called Fame. This one was a reality show for which Allen served as producer and choreographer and personally chose the young singer-dancers who competed each week for the final prize.